---
title: "Vue emits with parameters"
date: "2024-03-18T14:14:42Z"
draft: true
tags: ["vue"]
slug: "vue-emits-parameters"
navigation: false
competence: "elementary"
---

Passing events in **Vue** from a component back to the one that calls it is done with **emits**. If you are not using **Pinia**, `useState` in **Nuxt**, **Vuex** or another state management library, this is the way events are passed.

<!-- more -->

## What is a page and what is a component?

I am often asked, should I put this in the components or leave it on the page. The main rule is: if you are wondering if it can be a component, it should be a component. Also, it is good to group the components by certain features. If you are wondering how... I often give the [@layer](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/functions-and-directives#layer) directive of **TailwindCSS** as an example. It is a good starting point on how to group your components.

I divide the components into 2 types:

1. **Speculators**: Those that do not perform any business logic, but only draw and/or transfer data;
2. **Workers**: Those that perform secondary processing of the incoming parameters and add business logic, which they return to the calling component.

**Workers** can often be grouped into each other, while **Speculators** almost never.

## How are parameters passed?

We have a component (**Speculator**) that shows on the screen how many more product pages are left before the last page is reached. Let's call it `LoadMore.vue`. The input parameters of the component are: which page number is the current one and how many pages are in total. The component does not perform any business logic, it only emits back to the calling component the page number.

```vue
// components/utilities/LoadMore.vue

<script lang="ts" setup>
defineProps<{
  page: number;
  totalPages: number;
}>();
</script>

<template>
  <div class="col-12 text-center q-mt-md q-mb-xl">
    <button :label="`There are ${totalPages - page} more page${totalPages - page > 1 ? 's' : ''}`"
            @click="$emit('nextPage', Number(page))"
            class="btn btn-action btn-action--micro" />
  </div>
</template>
```